# Allure Command Line Tool
**Allure CLI** allows you to generate Allure report with no need to install any CI system or sophisticated build tool. To generate report with this tool you only need to have XML files generated by adapter.

## Installation
Allure CLI is a Java application so it's available for all platforms.
You have to manually install Java 1.7+ before using **Allure CLI**. 

#### Debian
For Debian-based repositories we provide a PPA so the installation is straightforward:
```bash
$ sudo apt-add-repository ppa:yandex-qatools/allure-framework
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install allure-cli
```
Supported distributions are: trusty, saucy and precise. 
After installation you will have **allure** command available.

#### Mac
You can install **Allure CLI** via [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/)
```bash
$ brew tap allure-framework/allure
$ brew install allure-cli
```
After installation you will have **allure** command available.

#### Windows and other Unix
 * [Download](https://github.com/allure-framework/allure-cli/releases/latest) latest version as ZIP archive
 * Unpack the archive to `allure-cli` directory
 * Navigate to `bin` directory
 * Use **allure.bat** for Windows and **allure** for other Unix platforms
 
## Configuration

Defaults: 
 * **Report Path**: `allure-report` 
 * **Report Version**: `1.3.9`

## Usage
### Generating report
To generate report simply run the following command:
```bash
$ allure relative/path/to/directory/with/xml/files
```
By default report is generated to directory named **allure-report**. When done simply open **index.html** page from the output directory or type:
```bash
$ allure report open
```
In order to change output directory type:
```bash
$ allure relative/path/to/directory/with/xml/files -o=relative/path/to/output/directory
```
When using command line tool version older than 2.0+ you should add **report generate** keywords:
```bash
$ allure report generate relative/path/to/directory/with/xml/files
```
### Selecting Report Version
Starting from CLI 2.0 you can specify version of the report to be used using **-v** flag:
```bash
$ allure relative/path/to/directory/with/xml/files -v 1.3.6
$ allure relative/path/to/directory/with/xml/files -v 1.4.0
```
This allows you to use the same CLI with less or more outdated adapters. Default version is **1.3.9**. All required files are downloaded from Internet automatically (this fact is important if you try to use CLI in offline environment).
### Getting help
To show help type:
```bash
$ allure help
```

## Contact us
Mailing list: [allure@yandex-team.ru](mailto:allure@yandex-team.ru)
